Human Body is a very complex and sophisticated structure and comprises of millions of functions. All these complicated functions have been understood by man him, part-by-part their research and experiments. As science and technology progressed, medicine became an integral part of the research. Gradually, medical science became an entirely new branch of science. As of today, the Health Sector comprises of Medical institutions i.e. Hospitals, HOSPITALs etc. research and development institutions and medical colleges. Thus the Health sector aims at providing the best medical facilities to the common man.
Since Hospital is associated with the lives of common people and their day-to-day routines so I decided to work on this project. The manual handling of the record is time consuming and highly prone to error. The purpose of this project is to automate or make online, the process of day-to-day activities like Room activities, Admission of New Patient, Discharge of Patient, Assign a Doctor, and finally compute the bill etc. I have tried my best to make the complicated process Hospital Management System as simple as possible using Structured & Modular technique & Menu oriented interface. I have tried to design the software in such a way that user may not have any difficulty in using this package & further expansion is possible without much effort. Even though I cannot claim that this work to be entirely exhaustive, the main purpose of my exercise is perform each Hospital’s activity in computerized way rather than manually which is time consuming. I am confident that this software package can be readily used by non-programming personal avoiding human handled chance of error.
Hospitals are the very essential part of our lives, getting the best medical facility will be our first concern. So, in order to provide the best medical facilities to people suffering from various ailments, which can be of any type at any stage. It is necessary for the hospitals to keep track of its day-to-day activities and records daily in the hospital of the patients, staff like doctors, nurses, ward members etc. to keep the hospital run smoothly and successfully.
Hospital Management System is used for various operations such as superior patient care, staff management, good credibility and profitability of the hospital. Hospital Management System is very powerful, easy to use software which is developed to deliver many real time benefits to hospitals. Most importantly it is backed by reliable and dependable support.
This Project  “Basic Hospital Management System” is mainly based on database, object oriented programming language. As there are many records we keep in the database of various areas for which we are using MY SQL software which is one of the best and easiest software to store the information. This project uses PYTHON as the back-end language which is an Object Oriented Programming Language and has the connectivity with MY SQL.
Hospital Management System is custom build to meet the demands of Hospitals across the globe. All the required modules and features have been particularly build to fit in the requirements. The database of the application makes it more user friendly and expandable. This Software can be modified as per the demands of the clients.
It covers all the required modules such as Patient Registration, Staff Registration, Doctor, Admin, Patient Appointment, Bill Payment, Record Modification, Discharge and Discharge Details and many more.
The main aim of this project is to provide a paper-less hospital. It also helps at providing low cost reliable automation of the existing systems. It also provides the excellent security of the data at any level. It also provides reliable backup and storage facilities.
